## Professional Assessment 



Throughout this program I have learned a lot, from programming languages to software development.  The skills I have learned has helped strengthen my ability to overcome obstacles.  When taking CS 330: Computational Graphic and Visualization, I initially had trouble understanding the concepts in the class. Through reading through the resources provided and asking questions to my professor I was ultimately able to succeed in the class.  My work on computational graphics and visualizations helped me learn how to approach problems in an interactive way.  The work helped me to visualize 3D spaces in a Cartesian coordinate system better.  It also taught me that learning new skills may seem overwhelming at first, but it is important to take projects on step a time to complete them successfully.
In taking the class CS-250: Software Development Lifecycle, I learned valuable skills in collaborating in a team environment.  The class taught me the various roles of a Scrum Team and allowed me to act as each team member and experience the process each role takes and how they rely on each other to produce a quality project.  In learning about real world scenarios, I learned about the how important each part of the team is and how communication between all members leads to success.  The three artifacts I chose, strongly showcase the skills I have acquired for Algorithm and Data Structure, Software Design and Engineering, and Databases.  These classes used Java, Python, and MongoDB.  


For each category I carefully picked which artifacts that would showcase my talents in Software Design and Engineering, Algorithms and Data Structures, and Databases.  The artifacts chosen are all originally written using the Java and Python languages.  My first artifact for Software Design and Engineering took a project I wrote in Java from 2019 from the class CS 320: Software Testing, Automation, and Quality Assurance.  I took two files along with a Junit test for each that I wrote in Java and transferred all files to Python.  For Algorithms and Data Structures, I took a project I created in 2019 from the class IT 145: Foundation in Application Development.  This was a project written in Java. To enhance this project, I added additional content as a new monitoring system.  I improved upon it by adding a new feature to the code and improving the syntax and commenting.  In the final category of Databases, I took a project I created in 2021 in the class CS 340 Client/Server Development.  It took a project where I had to develop a database along with a Python module enabling CRUD functionality for MongoDB.  To enhance this project, I decided to change it from interacting with a NoSQL database to interacting with a SQL database.  I also used the SQLAlchemy package in python so that transferring from MongoDB to other Databases would be relatively seamless.

